So for us, we're gonna do
something with componentDidMount,
except for we're gonna do this not
on search, so get rid of that.
We're gonna do on details,
So the first thing that we;re gonna
have to do here is unfortunately,
this is a function component, right?
That is just a function
the returns mark up.
We're gonna have to convert this to an
ES6 Class, which is something that you'll
kinda find yourself going back and
forth with sometimes.
But that's normal and healthy, so
we're gonna I say class
Details extends Component,
and bring in Component up here.
Okay, Then we're gonna to turn this
into our render method right here.
Then down here
And then we need to turn the props
up here, in fact we can just
get rid of that, and
say props show is going to be a Show.
And everywhere that we say props.show,
which I think is just that one place,
right, we're just gonna say this.prop.show
because now it's gonna be on the context,
not being passed in from the props.
So you're gonna notice up here
that class is complaining, okay?
This should be a stateless functional
component, that's what the AB and
B configuration does for you,
but it's a Normal, okay?
So what we're gonna do is we're
gonna have this kind of request,
something from our fake API,
this used to use the open movie database,
which unfortunately went closed,
so it's no longer still open.
[LAUGH] Understandably so, so
I've mocked out a fake API for
you, so if you go over to your terminal
really quick, open a new window.
I'm gonna go into talks FM complete mess,
so
I'm not gonna close my dev server,
I'm gonna leave that open.
But this one, I'm gonna run yarn API,
which I already included for you, and
you're gonna get something that looks
like this starting server on Port 3000.
And what this is going to do is it's
basically going to make a fake API for
you, that's gonna give you back ratings
for your TV shows, it's random right?
I did not rate these myself, right?
It's just randomly generated
every single time.
Cool So
now that this is an ESX component, let's
go ahead and, Yeah, start requesting data.
So by virtue of the fact that we only
make the API request after the the item
has amounted to the DOM,
we have this interim state that
we're going to be loading, right?
Because it's going to load the first time
without that rating, so that means that
we need to load with a loading state, and
then eventually render something out.
Does that make sense, right?
This is good, this is why you don't make
API requests in component will mount
because you don't wanna wait for
your API request to finish
before you render something.
You wanna render first and then request
something and then render again once
the data is back, that's why you do
all this in component did mount.
So let's create a new class and
a new page called spinner.JSX,
and this will be a reusable component
that we can use anytime we're loading.
So let's opt in to flow,
we're going to import React from 'react'
And we're going to import styled and
keyframes from 'styled-components'.
So I'm gonna show you another fun
capability with styled components,
you can still do keyframe
animations with them.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
make a spin keyframe animation,
that's gonna be equal to keyframes,
which is another tag template literal,
and we're gonna go from Transform,
rotate, zero degrees.
To transform,
rotate 360 degrees.
Actually I'm pretty sure now
that I've written this out,
I'm pretty sure you just need two
write and then in first the from.
Whatever the case we're just gonna leave
it cuz that's what it is in my notes okay,
then we're gonna do const
Image = styled.img,
And we're gonna say animation And
then we're gonna put in spin,
4s, infinite,
Linear; and background-image:
url(/public/image/loading.png
And then const spinner = an anonymous
function that returns image src
I guess you don't need that style.
You don't need that background image.
Okay, get rid of that,
"/public/img/loading.png".
And alt = ' loading indicator'.
And then export default spinner.
Okay, so we created a new keyframe up
here, and what's going to be stored in
this key frame is actually going to be
the generated name of that key frame.
And then we're going to be outputting
that here in the animation in the CSS for
this image, tag, right?
So now we have this dumb components,
this presentational component
that we can just render anywhere that we
want a nice little spinning pin wheel.
Really nice for loading, now we have this
Spinner component that we can use anywhere
that we're loading anything.
So we'll actually end up using
it in a couple of places,
hence why we made its own component.
But this is kinda the gist of how
you do keyframe animations with
styled components, which I think
is pretty slick in my opinion.
Okay, so now we're going to
use this inside of details So
we're going to import
spinner from './Spinner'
Okay?
And the other thing we're gonna import
here at the top is a library called axios,
import axios from 'axios'.
This is just an Ajax client, it doesn't
bother me if you don't like this one or
wanna use a different
sort of Ajax client or
if you just wanna write using
the fetch API, that all works for me.
I'm just gonna use axios
because it's really easy and
it's one that I've used for
a long time and super reliable.
It's also very easy to test with which I
will show you later how to test these Ajax
requests.
So suffice to say, that's why
we're going to use axios for now.
Okay, down here in details,
Had a prop type inside a show.
Yeah, okay, so go back to your types.js
real quick, and I already have it so
you don't need to do that.
No problem,
we're gonna go to details cool, and
then we're gonna have some
state up here at the top,
so state = {apidata,
is that what I started?
Yep, apidata and
its initial state is going to be
an };, Right?
So we're gonna request all this
information back from the API and
one of the requests or one of the answers
that it's going to give back to us is
this rating that we're going to display.
Okay, and then we're going
to make a componentDidmount,
I think it goes between these two,
componentDidmount, And
what we're gonna do is
we're gonna axios.get
Http://localhost:3000.
/$ this.props.show.imdbid
Okay, this is going to get
us the data from the API.
It's going to give us back a promise,
so we're gonna say .then and
we're going to get a response
back from the API.
So the response is going to look like
So this is just typing for
the data that we know we're gonna
be getting back from the API.
And coming here,
then we're gonna say this.setState( and
that's gonna be (apiData: response.data)).
And I call this imdb, so
let's just call this rating up here,
Okay?
So just to recap here,
So the first thing is to do is gonna
do a .get local host 3000 providing
your API server is running, so
make sure your API server is running.
And it's going to go out and get from
the imdbID based on the imdbID, then it's
going to give you back this response
object, which is gonna give you back data,
which is something that axios does,
then it's gonna do rating.
And that's gonna be a string, and
we're going to use that to set state, so
that API data is going to be replaced
by whatever comes back from the API.
>> This is the comment in chat about why
would you use axios versus fetch, and
the fact is that you don't
have to call .json and
all that stuff it just sends
the data as you'd expect.
And then also, error handling,
you don't have to check if it's,-
>> Yep.
>> Response code is 200.
>> Yes.
>> Just do a ,catch and
grabbing yours,-
>> it's a little bit more baked than just
like it does a lot more for
you than fetch does.
In particular, for this workshop,
the reason why I chose it is
that axios is very easy to test.
And so we're gonna be using that
capability later, whereas with fetch,
you need to do a little bit
more mocking on your part.
So that's why I chose axios, and
again, I've been using axios for
years at this point.
Cool, So
now we have that coming back from the API.
So what we're gonna do
here is underneath here,
we're gonna say let rating component.
And then we're gonna say if
this.state.api data.rating,
so if we have gotten
this back from the API,
then rating component is going to
be equal to an h3 with that rating.
So it's gonna be
this.State.apidata.rating else
Rating component is going
to be equal to our spinner.
So again, coming back to, you wanna think
about your components in snapshots, right?
So, given the snapshot that the API data
has come back, it's gonna be equal to
this h3 right here, given the snapshot
that it has not come back from the API,
it's gonna be this loading state, right?
Okay, and the more we're gonna do is
we're gonna put that between year and
poster, so right here we're
gonna say ratingComponent.
Cool, So if we come back here,
And we go to one of our details page.
Notice we get this nice little spinner
right there, and then eventually resolves,
and gives us back a rating.
So again, what that looks like I
have it introduced an artificial delay
cuz it was coming back too fast, so
it's gonna come back between 0 and
5 seconds.
So that's why it seems slow.
In fact,
if you look at that code ratings API, see,
it's just generating random,
timeout right there for 5 seconds.
So that's why it seems slow, it's because
it's intentionally slow, Any questions?
Yeah?
>> Yeah, just a general question
about components, so in that if else,
I just wanna make sure I understand.
So we could capitalize
the rating component,
and then, call it as, like in the verse.
>> So if you wanted to do that,
what you would have to do is,
rating component like this, right?
>> Yep.
>> Then you would have
to make it a function.
>> Okay.
>> And then here you would say,
rating component, like that, right?
Same thing for the one up there,
that's a bad idea, don't do that,
[LAUGH] Tte reason why is
you'd be a creating component,
you'd be creating functions rather on
every render, which is slow, right?
That's why we didn't do .bind
before inside of the render body.
You don't wanna be generating and
destroying things on every render,
cuz that's a lot of garbage collection
that you don't wanna go through,
that make sense?
Cool it's a good question so
I think this is pretty amazing
it just makes doing things like,
Requesting stuff from APIs and
asynchronous data, thinking about things
in terms of snapshots,
it just really makes sense for me, right?
Given this data,
it looks like this, right?
Before it gets stuff from
the API looks like this,
after stuff from the API looks like this.
There's no imperative like, grab this
thing and change its inner HTML and then,
make sure later that it has changed.
It's crazy having components just
keep track of their state, and
then just referencing the state,
makes a lot of sense to me personally.